TODO
====

* Make the dungeon size easily settable via a single value, scaling the rest
  accordingly.

----------------


MAKIN' A GAME
=============

The idea I have now goes like this:

This is a game about magic; about casting spells in order to acheive your
goals.

I want to whole thing to feel like a series of fun puzzles, each different due
to random dungeon generation and the random spawning of monsters and items.

I'm not sure I can say it's strictly "inspired by", but I have been reading a
lot of Dresden Files lately..

Game Mechanics
==============

My current ideas about how various parts of the game are meant to work.


Magic
-----

Individual spells require varying amounts of the different types of mana
available.  For example, throwing a fireball might require 2 Fire mana (to
generate the fireball itself), and 1 Air Mana (for propelling it through the
air.)  Perhaps the player can tailor their own spells by changing how much of
each mana they put into it, changing the effectiveness of the associated
properties of the spell.  In the above example, using 4 points of Fire instead of 2
would make it twice as hot, burning enemies for twice as long, while
increasing the Air mana usage could propel it faster, making the initial
impact more effective.


Mana
----

Mana is what powers magic.  It is drawn from the environment.  Air is nearly
always available, so long as you're breathing.  Water is available if you are
near a a pool or stream, and the closer you are and the more water there is,
the more mana you can summon, and the faster you can do it.  Drawing mana from
the environment doesn't consume things (but maybe it optionally *could*, for a
boost?)  This means that the spells at your command depend on the particulars
of your surroundings at the time you want to cast.

To enforce this, there isn't a significant Mana pool the player carries around
with them.  Each time you want to cast a spell, you must first draw in the
power to do so from the environment around you.  Mana you've built up
drains away if unused, only slightly more slowly than it took to draw it in
in the first place.

But unused mana doesn't entirely deplete itself.  The player can be left with
a small amount of mana available for instant spellcasting -- AKA Evocation.
This is never very large, however, and significant spells will always take a
short time to prepare.


Mana Types
----------

For lack of anything better at the moment, let's go with the old standard:

    * Fire
    Control temperature.  Create heat, or *remove* heat.

    * Water
    Condense water out of the air.

    * Air
    Moves things through otherwise empty space.

    * Earth
    Reshape available dirt and stone into forms you want.

    * Spirit
    * Mind


Example Spells
--------------

When coming up with these, think less about combat-oriented ideas, and more
general puzzle-solving things (some of which may involve combat)

Also, consider different ideas for base elements.  Not necessarily Earth Wind
Air Fire.  Gravity, Electricity.. ?  These are to be types of energy, after
all..

Example Items
-------------

### Kinetic Ring

Cast a force bolt spell for free.  Must be 'charged' by storing
a piece of the kinetic energy every time it moves.  Effectiveness of the spell
cast depends on how much the player has done *while wearing the ring* since it
was last used.  Two kinds - regular force ring stores one spell, as described.
Improved force ring stores the ability to fire multiple spells, but charges
correspondingly more slowly.


---

### EaWiAiFi school

Combinations of Earth, Air, Wind, and Fire

Fireball
    2 Fire
    1 Air

    Hurls a mass of fire

Wall
    2 Earth

    Creates a shield of stone

Pool
    2 Water

    Forms a pool of water, impairing the ability of most enemies to fight
    effectively.

Freeze
    1 Fire

    Turn a moderate mass of water into ice.  Enemies fighting on ice are at a
    disadvantage (more so than on water), and may fall to the ground.

Heal
    2 Spirit
    1 Water

    Recover from wounds.

Levitate
    2 Air


I kind of envision the player acquiring access to various spells as the
game progresses, each of which does various puzzle-like things to the
surroundings, and to the monsters.  The challenges thrown at the player are
all solvable in various ways, depending on spells and perhaps equipment
available.  Keep it simple at first, so progress can continue to be made on
development.

Say a monster is coming down the hall at a player with his back to a door.
He can open the door, kill the monster, contain or incapacitate the
monster, teleport himself..

The environment should affect choice.  Maybe, like, water spells have a
chance of working based on proximity to water.  If a stream or pool is
nearby, then freezing the ground under the monster causes a greater to-hit
penalty and movement reduction.  Etc.

How about:  Standard 4 elements.  When entering combat, you begin 'drawing
in' your magical power - it's like mana, but with a much lower max, and a
much higher regen rate.  And a separate mana pool for each element.  An
individual spell requires various amounts of mana from each element.  So
your tactics change depending on what's around you (if standing next to a
pool of water, then you can summon a lot of 'water' mana and power a lot of
spells that use it.)

Earth
Wind
Air
Fire
Spirit?  --+-- not enviroment-dependent?
Mind?    --+

dungeon interface

    at()                                         get an array of the contents at a location
    render()                                     return HTML element containg the current dungeon
    remove(object | location)                    remove an object from whereever it is in the dungeon, or remove everything at the given location.
    put(object, location)                        Store <object> in dungeon at <location>
    move(object, location)                       Move <object> from whereever it is to <location>
    moveUp/moveDown/moveLeft/moveRight(object)   Move <object> from whereever it is one space in the given direction.

